---
title: "Release Guide"
description: "OSM Release Guide"
type: docs
---

# Release Guide

This guide describes the process to create a GitHub Release for this project.

## Release Candidates

Release candidates (RCs) should be created before each significant release so final testing can be performed. RCs are tagged as `vX.Y.Z-rc.W`. After the following steps have been performed to publish the RC, perform any final testing with the published release artifacts for about one week.

If issues are found, submit patches to the RC's release branch and create a new RC with the tag `vX.Y.Z-rc.W+1`. Apply those same patches to the `main` branch. Repeat until the release is suitably stable.

Once an RC has been found to be stable, cut a release tagged `vX.Y.Z` using the following steps.

1. [Create a release branch](#create-a-release-branch)
1. [Update release branch with versioning changes](#update-release-branch-with-versioning-changes)
1. [Create and push a Git tag](#create-and-push-a-git-tag)
1. [Add release notes](#add-release-notes)
1. [Update README chart with helm-docs](#update-readme-chart-with-helm-docs)
1. [Create a Helm chart release](#create-a-helm-chart-release)
1. [Announce the new release](#announce-the-new-release)
1. [Make version changes on main branch](#make-version-changes-on-main-branch)

## Create a release branch

Identify the base commit in the `main` branch for the release and cut a release branch off `main`.
```console
$ git checkout -b release-<version> <commit-id> # ex: git checkout -b release-v0.4 0d05587
```

Push the release branch to the main repo (not fork), identified here by the `upstream` remote.
```console
$ git push upstream release-<version> # ex: git push upstream release-v0.4
```

## Update release branch with versioning changes

Create a pull request against the release branch `release-<version>` from your fork to update version
information for the Helm charts and default container images. The pull request should do the following:

* Update the container image tag in [charts/osm/values.yaml](https://github.com/openservicemesh/osm/tree/main/charts/osm/values.yaml) to point to the new release
* Bump the chart and app version in [charts/osm/Chart.yaml](https://github.com/openservicemesh/osm/tree/main/charts/osm/Chart.yaml) to point to the new release
* Update the default osm-controller image tag in [osm cli](https://github.com/openservicemesh/osm/blob/main/cmd/cli/install.go) to point to the new release

The pull request must be reviewed and merged before proceeding to the next step.

## Create and push a Git tag

Once the release is ready to be published, create and push a Git tag from the release branch in
the main repo (not fork), identified here by the `upstream` remote.

```console
$ export RELEASE_VERSION=<release-version> # ex: export RELEASE_VERSION=v0.4.0
$ git tag -a "$RELEASE_VERSION" -m "<add description here>"
$ git push upstream "$RELEASE_VERSION"
```

A [GitHub Action](https://github.com/openservicemesh/osm/blob/main/.github/workflows/release.yml) is triggered when the tag is pushed.
It will build the CLI binaries, publish a new GitHub release,
upload the packaged binaries and checksums as release assets,
and build and push Docker images for OSM and the demo to the
[`openservicemesh` organization](https://hub.docker.com/u/openservicemesh) on Docker Hub.

## Add release notes

In the description section of the new release, add information about feature additions, bug fixes,
and any other administrative tasks completed on the repository.

## Update README chart with helm-docs

Chart's README is autogenerated with [helm-docs](https://github.com/norwoodj/helm-docs). Once versioning has been addressed
under `charts/osm/Chart.yaml`, update the README with the following command:

```
make chart-readme
```

## Create a Helm chart release

* create a Git tag from main in the format `chart/x.x.x` where `x.x.x` is the chart version
* push the Git tag to the main repo (not fork)
* GitHub Actions runs [helm-gh-pages](https://github.com/stefanprodan/helm-gh-pages) that packages the charts, updates `index.yaml` and pushes the changes to `gh-pages` branch
* GitHub Pages publishes the new version, making the chart available at `https://openservicemesh.github.io/osm`

## Announce the new release

Make an announcement on the [mailing list](https://groups.google.com/g/openservicemesh).

## Make version changes on main branch

Skip this step if the release is a release candidate (RC).

Open a pull request against the `main` branch making the same version updates as [above](#update-release-branch-with-versioning-changes) so the latest release assets are referenced there.

## Make version changes on docs.openservicemesh.io

To add the new version to the 'Releases' dropdown menu on [docs.openservicemesh.io](https://docs.openservicemesh.io/), refer to [this section](https://github.com/openservicemesh/osm/tree/main/docs#versioning-the-docs-site) of the site Readme.
